- [Speaker] And we talked a little bit about RDBMS
in the previous video.
And now it's time to start talking about JDBC itself.
The JDBC or Java Database Connectivity is an API
for client side access to a database.
And again, that database is a relational database.
And that's what we're really focused on.
Now, the latest spec is defined in JSR 221
at the time of this recording.
And that relates around JDBC 4.
Now one really cool thing about JDBC
is it allows you to have universal data access.
And indeed, if you write your SQL correctly,
it's hot swappable.
As long as your database has support for standard SQL
and you use standard SQL, you should be able to swap
between other databases that share that same characteristic.
Now, in order to do this,
there has to be JDBC drivers available.
And indeed almost all databases you'll run into,
there's a JDBC driver that is available, that you can use.
Whether it's on server or embedded, they exist.
Now, in theory, when you do this,
you can run the same code against two different databases.
And that really allows us
to have a lot of power in our system.
Because as a developer, I can write locally
against Derby or MySQL or Postgre's,
and then deploy into a world where we've got Oracle or DB2,
as long as we're using ANSI standard SQL in both use cases.
And throughout the course, I'm going to give you a few pointers
on how to make those SQL statements
a little bit more easy to manipulate
so that your DBA's can tweak your queries
without impacting your code.
Now the basic flow of operations
in a JDBC world is as such.
Your application will mount the driver
and using that driver will create a connection.
From that connection, we can execute SQL statements,
whether they're queries
or actual execution statements themselves.
Then we can either commit those changes
if there were any or roll them back,
and then we close the connection.
And you'll see this pattern used over and over again.
In fact, it's really going to become second nature.
Now for some queries where we're getting data back,
there's going to be an additional step
after we do the execute SQL
where we're going to unpack the results set.
And we'll definitely show you that
as we go throughout this course.
Now one thing to note
when you're dealing with exceptions in a JDBC world
is that all JDBC operations throw a SQLException
or some subclass of it.
And then these are named exceptions.
So you either have to catch it
and perform some operations on it,
or you have to throw it out of your system.
Now I use a pattern where I convert all named exceptions
that are runtime exceptions.
At the top layer of my application,
I will catch those runtime exceptions
and actually do work on it
because all too often throughout my code,
I'm not going to do anything other than throw that exception
to a higher level.
Now that's just a pattern that I use personally.
But in this course,
we're going to focus on the named exceptions.
Now, one thing that's really cool about the SQL exception
is that you get a standardized SQLSTATE code
that is available on the exception.
And you can use that to determine what caused the error.
In addition, there's an error code available
on the SQL exception.
Now this error code is very vendor specific.
If you remember, when I talked about Oracle
and how their error codes were different than system are,
that's really the way it is
throughout all the database vendors.
They all have their own error codes
for the same error condition.
So those error codes really going to require you
to go look up the error in the database,
but they are very useful
if you put them into your log messages.
Now as we go throughout the course,
you'll see examples of this.
And I highly encourage you to develop a pattern
for dealing with exceptions in a JDBC world.